mkdocs_publisher_docs/README.md, before:

---
date: 2023-10-02 23:12:38
update: 2023-10-10 13:18:32
---
# Publisher for MkDocs

[![PyPI version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/mkdocs-publisher?logo=pypi&style=plastic)](https://pypi.org/project/mkdocs-publisher/)
[![License type](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/mkdocs-publisher?logo=pypi&style=plastic)](https://opensource.org/license/mit/)
[![PyPI Downloads last month](https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/mkdocs-publisher?logo=pypi&style=plastic)](https://pypistats.org/search/mkdocs-publisher)
[![Python versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/mkdocs-publisher?logo=python&style=plastic)](https://www.python.org)
[![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/mkusz/mkdocs-publisher?logo=github&style=plastic)](https://github.com/mkusz/mkdocs-publisher/commits/main)

Publisher for [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/) is a set of plugins that helps with content creation and publication.

## Features

- [pub-meta](https://mkusz.github.io/mkdocs-publisher/setup/general/pub-meta/) – support for:
	- automatic [document navigation](https://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/configuration/#nav) creation based on file names order,
	- document publication status,
	- possibility to define document and directories URL (good for SEO),
	- document creation and update date (good for SEO),
- [pub-blog](https://mkusz.github.io/mkdocs-publisher/setup/general/pub-blog/) – blogging capability:
	- index creation,
	- support for blog post teasers,
	- automatic creation of pages for archive, categories and tags,
- [pub-obsidian](https://mkusz.github.io/mkdocs-publisher/setup/general/pub-obsidian/) – bindings for [Obsidina.md](https://obsidian.md) that allows you to use:
	- [backlinks](https://help.obsidian.md/Plugins/Backlinks),
	- [callouts](https://help.obsidian.md/Editing+and+formatting/Callouts),
	- [wikilinks](https://help.obsidian.md/Linking+notes+and+files/Internal+links),
	- [vega charts](https://vega.github.io/vega/) (using [Vega Visualization Plugin for Obsidian](https://github.com/Some-Regular-Person/obsidian-vega)) - advanced solution for creating charts,
- [pub-social](https://mkusz.github.io/mkdocs-publisher/setup/seo-and-sharing/pub-social/) – social cards for social media sharing using document metadata,
- [pub-minifier](https://mkusz.github.io/mkdocs-publisher/setup/seo-and-sharing/pub-minifier/) – file size optimization (good for SEO and overall page size optimization),
- [pub-debugger](https://mkusz.github.io/mkdocs-publisher/setup/development/pub-debugger/) – logging on steroids with the possibility of creating of ZIP file with logs and additional information (can be used for better issue reporting).

## Installation

```commandline
pip install mkdocs-publisher
```

More information about installation methods and plugin setup can be found on this [documentation page](https://mkusz.github.io/mkdocs-publisher/setup/installation/).

> [!warning]
> Before any use, make sure you have a backup of your data.

> [!note]
> As a base for any development, [mkdocs-material](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/) theme was used. If you are willing to use any other theme, you may (or may not) face some issues. If this happens, please submit an [issue](https://github.com/mkusz/mkdocs-publisher/issues).

## Planned features

A full list of planned developments can be found on [this documentation page](https://mkusz.github.io/mkdocs-publisher/development/other/backlog/). I'm planning to move it to the project [GitHub issues](https://github.com/mkusz/mkdocs-publisher/issues) with proper badges and longer descriptions, but it's time-consuming and at this stage I'd rather spend it to develop a project.

## Version history

The entire version history can be found in the project [version history](https://mkusz.github.io/mkdocs-publisher/development/changelog/) document and inside [releases](https://github.com/mkusz/mkdocs-publisher/releases).

Commit message:

Add: minifier cache & files exclude. Fix: obsidian comments

mkdocs_publisher_docs/README.md, after:

---
date: 2023-10-02 23:12:38
update: 2023-10-10 13:18:32
---
# Publisher for MkDocs

[![PyPI version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/mkdocs-publisher?logo=pypi&style=plastic)](https://pypi.org/project/mkdocs-publisher/)
[![License type](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/mkdocs-publisher?logo=pypi&style=plastic)](https://opensource.org/license/mit/)
[![PyPI Downloads last month](https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/mkdocs-publisher?logo=pypi&style=plastic)](https://pypistats.org/search/mkdocs-publisher)
[![Python versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/mkdocs-publisher?logo=python&style=plastic)](https://www.python.org)
[![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/mkusz/mkdocs-publisher?logo=github&style=plastic)](https://github.com/mkusz/mkdocs-publisher/commits/main)

Publisher for [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/) is a set of plugins that helps with content creation and publication.

## Features

- [pub-meta](https://mkusz.github.io/mkdocs-publisher/setup/general/pub-meta/) – support for:
	- automatic [document navigation](https://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/configuration/#nav) creation based on file names order,
	- document publication status,
	- possibility to define document and directories URL (good for SEO),
	- document creation and update date (good for SEO),
- [pub-blog](https://mkusz.github.io/mkdocs-publisher/setup/general/pub-blog/) – blogging capability:
	- index creation,
	- support for blog post teasers,
	- automatic creation of pages for archive, categories and tags,
- [pub-obsidian](https://mkusz.github.io/mkdocs-publisher/setup/general/pub-obsidian/) – bindings for [Obsidina.md](https://obsidian.md) that allows you to use:
	- [backlinks](https://help.obsidian.md/Plugins/Backlinks),
	- [callouts](https://help.obsidian.md/Editing+and+formatting/Callouts),
	- [wikilinks](https://help.obsidian.md/Linking+notes+and+files/Internal+links),
	- [vega charts](https://vega.github.io/vega/) (using [Vega Visualization Plugin for Obsidian](https://github.com/Some-Regular-Person/obsidian-vega)) - advanced solution for creating charts,
- [pub-social](https://mkusz.github.io/mkdocs-publisher/setup/seo-and-sharing/pub-social/) – social cards for social media sharing using document metadata,
- [pub-minifier](https://mkusz.github.io/mkdocs-publisher/setup/seo-and-sharing/pub-minifier/) – file size optimization (good for SEO and overall page size optimization),
- [pub-debugger](https://mkusz.github.io/mkdocs-publisher/setup/development/pub-debugger/) – logging on steroids with the possibility of creating of ZIP file with logs and additional information (can be used for better issue reporting).

## Installation

```commandline
pip install mkdocs-publisher
```

More information about installation methods and plugin setup can be found on this [documentation page](https://mkusz.github.io/mkdocs-publisher/setup/installation/).

> [!warning]
> Before any use, make sure you have a backup of your data.

> [!note]
> As a base for any development, [mkdocs-material](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/) theme was used. If you are willing to use any other theme, you may (or may not) face some issues. If this happens, please submit an [issue](https://github.com/mkusz/mkdocs-publisher/issues).

After installation, you have to enable plugins and Material for MkDocs theme in `mkdocs.yml` file:

```yaml
theme: material

plugins:
  - search  # Material for MkDocs search plugin
  - pub-debugger
  - pub-obsidian  # blog is a directory with all blog posts
  - pub-obsidian
  - pub-social
  - pub-meta
  - pub-minifier
```

## Planned features

A full list of planned developments can be found on [this documentation page](https://mkusz.github.io/mkdocs-publisher/development/other/backlog/). I'm planning to move it to the project [GitHub issues](https://github.com/mkusz/mkdocs-publisher/issues) with proper badges and longer descriptions, but it's time-consuming and at this stage I'd rather spend it to develop a project.

## Version history

The entire version history can be found in the project [version history](https://mkusz.github.io/mkdocs-publisher/development/changelog/) document and inside [releases](https://github.com/mkusz/mkdocs-publisher/releases).
