documentation/05_dev/01_backlog.md, before:

---
title: Backlog
slug: backlog
status: published
date: 2023-02-12 22:00:00
update: 2023-03-23 23:02:36
categories: general backlog
description: Plans for future development of Publisher for MkDocs
---

# Plans for future development

Below lists is a list of tasks that are planned to be done (a backlog) and there is no particular order when they will be implemented. If you are interested in any of the below points being implemented in a first place or there is something missing here, please report and issue.

## Plugins

### Auto-nav

There are no backlog tasks for this plugin at this time.

### Blog

- [ ] Add: blog post reading time + watch time (defined in post meta)
- [ ] Add: possibility to disable categories and/or tags pages
- [ ] Add: automatic add [search exclude](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/setup/setting-up-site-search/#search-exclusion) to draft and hidden pages when using material for MkDocs theme with search plugin enabled
- [ ] Add: authors and update date in the template
- [ ] Add: blog posts index template override
- [ ] Add: language override in YAML file
- [ ] Add: configurable date format
- [ ] Add: blog post publication state: draft, published, hidden
- [ ] Fix: `blog` slug do not open first page when not in standalone mode

### Minifier

- [ ] Add: ignored files list/pattern (globally and per file type)
- [ ] Add: stats for number of minified/taken from cache files
- [ ] Add: cache disable (globally and per file type)
- [ ] Add: configurable file extensions per minifier

### Automations (new plugin)

- [ ] Add: automatic addition of `extra_css` and `extra_js` files
- [ ] Add: automatic addition of `loading` attribute to all images and iframes for [lazy-loading](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/reference/images/#image-lazy-loading)

### Status (new plugin)

- [ ] Add: usage of page frontmatter
- [ ] Add: document publication state: draft, published, hidden
- [ ] Add: sitemap optimizations and creation of `robots.txt` file based on document status

### Social (new plugin)

- [ ] Add: inject social media preview into document based on frontmatter

### Obsidian (new plugin)

- [ ] Add: callout format support
- [ ] Add: wiki links format support
- [ ] Add: links fixer relative to file
- [ ] Add: charts
- [ ] Add: mind maps (???)
- [ ] Add: templates (blog post, page, etc.)
- [ ] Add: backlinks
- [ ] Add: graphs (long-term goal)

## General

### CLI tool

- [ ] Add: project initialization that preconfigure `mkdocs.yml`
- [ ] Add: create a new blog post
- [ ] Add: document/blog post slug update
- [ ] Add: check for minifier tools
- [ ] Add: minify single file using minifier
- [ ] Add: document/blog post publication state change

### Documentation

- [ ] Blog plugin
- [ ] Minifier plugin
- [ ] Auto-nav plugin
- [ ] Integration with RSS plugin
- [ ] How to set up and use docker image
- [ ] Setting up CI/CD in GitHub Actions
- [ ] This plugin development how to

### Other

 - [ ] Create Docker image with everything preinstalled and preconfigured
 - [ ] GitHub repo with preconfigured pages, etc. (can be integrated with Docker Image creation)
 - [ ] Unit tests and code coverage with pre-commit
 - [ ] Cleanup list of code TODO's
 - [ ] Drop `python-frontmatter` for MkDocs built-in library for metadata retrieval

Commit message:

Add: social cards - new plugin

documentation/05_dev/01_backlog.md, after:

---
title: Backlog
slug: backlog
status: published
date: 2023-02-12 22:00:00
update: 2023-04-04 13:38:46
categories: general backlog
description: Plans for future development of Publisher for MkDocs
---

# Plans for future development

Below lists is a list of tasks that are planned to be done (a backlog) and there is no particular order when they will be implemented. If you are interested in any of the below points being implemented in a first place or there is something missing here, please report and issue.

## Plugins

### Auto-nav

- [ ] Add: ignore file/directory from config and/or README.md file

### Blog

- [ ] Add: blog post reading time + watch time (defined in post meta)
- [ ] Add: possibility to disable categories and/or tags pages
- [ ] Add: automatic add [search exclude](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/setup/setting-up-site-search/#search-exclusion) to draft and hidden pages when using material for MkDocs theme with search plugin enabled
- [ ] Add: authors and update date in the template
- [ ] Add: blog posts index template override
- [ ] Add: language override in YAML file
- [ ] Add: configurable date format
- [ ] Add: blog post publication state: draft, published, hidden
- [ ] Fix: remove edit_url from dynamic pages (like archive/categories/tags and indexes)
- [ ] Fix: `blog` slug do not open first page when not in standalone mode
- [ ] Fix: remove slug and make it automatically the same as `blog_dir`

### Minifier

- [ ] Add: ignored files list/pattern (globally and per file type)
- [ ] Add: stats for number of minified/taken from cache files
- [ ] Add: cache disable (globally and per file type)
- [ ] Add: configurable file extensions per minifier

### Automations (new plugin)

- [ ] Add: automatic addition of `extra_css` and `extra_js` files
- [ ] Add: automatic addition of `loading` attribute to all images and iframes for [lazy-loading](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/reference/images/#image-lazy-loading)

### Status (new plugin)

- [ ] Add: usage of page frontmatter
- [ ] Add: document publication state: draft, published, hidden
- [ ] Add: sitemap optimizations and creation of `robots.txt` file based on document status

### Social (new plugin)

- [ ] Add: inject social media preview into document based on frontmatter
- [ ] Add: image generator if one is not provided
- [ ] Add: ignored file list/pattern
- [ ] Add: warning on missing meta key
- [ ] Add: ignore single file based on frontmatter
- [ ] Add: check for description and title length (SEO)
- [ ] Add: setup a default image used for a social card

### SEO (new plugin)

- [ ] Add: multiple html `<meta name="author">` based on frontmatter authors
- [ ] Add: multiple html `<meta name="keywords">` based on frontmatter categories and tags
- [ ] Add: publisher html value`<link href="{site_url}" rel="publisher" />` that points to the main page URL
- [ ] Add: robots html settings `<meta name="robots" content="noindex, nofollow" />`
- [ ] Add: check for description and title length (SEO)

### Obsidian (new plugin)

- [ ] Add: callout format support
- [ ] Add: wiki links format support
- [ ] Add: links fixer relative to file
- [ ] Add: charts
- [ ] Add: mind maps (???)
- [ ] Add: templates (blog post, page, etc.)
- [ ] Add: backlinks
- [ ] Add: graphs (long-term goal)

## General

### CLI tool

- [ ] Add: project initialization that preconfigure `mkdocs.yml`
- [ ] Add: create a new blog post
- [ ] Add: document/blog post slug update
- [ ] Add: check for minifier tools
- [ ] Add: clean minifier cache
- [ ] Add: minify single file using minifier
- [ ] Add: document/blog post publication state change

### Documentation

- [ ] Blog plugin
- [ ] Minifier plugin
- [ ] Auto-nav plugin
- [ ] Integration with RSS plugin
- [ ] How to set up and use docker image
- [ ] Setting up CI/CD in GitHub Actions
- [ ] This plugin development how to

### Other

 - [ ] Create Docker image with everything preinstalled and preconfigured
 - [ ] GitHub repo with preconfigured pages, etc. (can be integrated with Docker Image creation)
 - [ ] Unit tests and code coverage with pre-commit
 - [ ] Cleanup list of code TODO's
 - [ ] Drop `python-frontmatter` for MkDocs built-in library for metadata retrieval
